1) Brother's feud over rights
2) Kingdom splits, Gideon's father retains Eden
3) Dorian takes those who are still loyal to him, while also leaving some behind to spy.
4) Dorian begins constructing his Kingdom. He is later approached by a strange entity that also wanted Eden to fall, with its own reasoning for wanting to do so. He accepts a deal to restore his youth, and the two forces combine efforts to bring Eden to its knees. War breaks. The youthful Dorian is cunning as he once was, and the battle will be hard-fought for both sides.
5) Gideon is born just before the first war between Eden and Thorne
6) During the early war between Eden and Thorne, Gideon's father is assassinated in a wartime attack, leaving only the Queen to rule Eden
7) Gideon at a young age (17) is already being targeted for manipulation
8) Rowan is born
9) Gideon finds out he is not the true bearer of the gene from his generation. Around this same time a deeper doctrinal truth surfaces inside the castle: the true prophesied figure should be able to read the ancients' language at a glance — a marker Gideon cannot fulfill and immediately moves to suppress.
10) Decides to undercut the Thorne spies and takes over the plot for the crystal for himself
11) Decides murdering his family excluding Rowan is still the best option when Rowan is confirmed internally to carry the gene
12) Becomes officially crowned and starts immediately setting his plan into motion starting with giving Rowan a new identity, Jack
13) Richard joins the army
14) Revises history carefully and methodically through paid off servants/priests over time.
15) All this time he is shaping Jack into the ultimate soldier
16) Marcus joins the army at around the same time Jack does, they develop a friendly rivalry
17) Battles are waged between Eden and Thorne over the years, Jack participates in some of the later battles alongside Richard and Marcus
18) Jack shows great promise and composure in battles, as well as Richard who is notably older than Jack
19) Richard, Marcus, and Jack along with some key others survive a battle where no others did
20) Richard is promoted to General to replace the fallen General before him
21) Richard and Jack develop a bond, on and off the battlefield
22) Richard loses his wife
23) Jack is there to console him
24) Later, Richard meets Esmeralda's mother. They rendezvous in secrecy often, developing a strong relationship
25) Marshe is born
26) Gideon, noticing Richard losing focus and feeling more pressure to find the crystal promotes Jack to General
27) Marcus is upset by this, as he will now be working under Jack
28) Jack is sent to wipe out a village of supposed rebels
29) Jack knows something is not right and hesitates
30) He argues with Marcus about aborting the mission
31) Jack plays the authority card and the squadron heads back to the castle
32) Upon returning they are sentenced to exile (to Jack and Marcus's surprise)
33) The night before the morning they are to be escorted to the exile village, all but Jack and Marcus were executed behind closed doors. Upon arrival, the terms of exile are formally stated to them — including a strict ban on weapons within the village.
34) Richard starts to notice a pattern of inconsistency
35) He has his friend, a researcher, look more closely into it.
36) He advises his friend to be extremely careful
37) Out of anger and desperation, Gideon sends one of his mercenaries to acquire the most beautiful woman in the kingdom to bear his child
38) The woman happened to be Richard's new love interest
39) Richard holds back deep pain when he realizes that she now sits beside the King and he is powerless to do anything about it
40) At the same time, Jack meets a woman in the exile village and they fall in love
41) Esmeralda and Leo are expected to be born within a few months of each other
42) Esmeralda and Leo are born
43) Richard knows that Esmeralda is his daughter, because he and Esmeralda's mother had been seeing each other in secrecy
44) Richard and Esmeralda's mother plan to flee with her together. Richard ultimately decides it is too dangerous — exposure would get them all killed and the castle is safer for Esmeralda than exile. He pulls back from the plan.
45) Esmeralda's mother does not listen and attempts the escape alone. She is shortly caught and executed in secret, buried beneath a lie of illness. Richard carries the knowledge that his withdrawal is part of why she acted alone.
46) The King decides he is running out of time and decides to position Esmeralda as the super modern ancient
47) Richard can do nothing but watch the lie unfold, he watches Esmeralda grow from afar
48) He now realizes the extent his King is willing to go to in order to manipulate the truth
49) He begins making contacts outside of the Kingdom to prepare rebellion once he's collected enough proof of the King's crimes
50) The king starts to notice the way Richard looks at Esmeralda, he recalls seeing Richard with her mother
51) The king exiles Richard in secret, banishing him to the same fate as Jack and Marcus
52) Aldric is appointed as the new General. During this time Dorian receives more pressure from the entity to retrieve the crystal. Thorne, Dorian, and the entity find out about Rowan/Jack's presence in the exile village, and the entity releases a subtle virus upon it.
53) Shortly upon Richard's arrival to the village, the sickness is already in its proto-stage. Richard begins building weapons shortly after arriving — he constructs a hidden forge and works at night, taking on the public cover of a carpenter. By the time the film starts he already has a sizeable collection.
54) Richard receives messages from the kingdom from his researcher friend. He learns the truth about Jack's hidden identity.
55) He fills Jack and Marcus in on the situation. Jack is in disbelief and heartbroken at the betrayal of Gideon, who he once fancied a father figure. Richard also initially believes Marcus may help in good faith: Marcus is battle-proven and has obvious motive to want his family out of exile.
56) Leo's mother falls ill
57) This delays the rebellion further
58) The King begins to develop a genuine attachment to Esmeralda. During this time, Richard is strengthening his rebellion plan
59) Leo's mother dies while he is still a toddler, Esmeralda is already being fed lies about her role in the kingdom's prophecy
60) Jack still hesitates on joining the rebellion. Marcus ultimately refuses the rebellion outright, and the argument between Jack and Marcus takes place partly over that fracture; they fight and Jack ultimately wins.
61) A council meeting at the village is taking place when Marcus, who had already been affected by the illness unknown to everyone else attacks an elder
62) Richard swiftly takes action and eliminates the threat. He officially marks himself as an outcast since people were horrified and didn't know the full story
63) Young Marshe is none the wiser, still young himself. His mother is left to raise him on her own before she later died of the illness.
64) Young Marshe is left to fend for his own. Meanwhile, Jack has finally accepted his role in the rebellion. Richard had already been making weapons in the dark, Jack gets right to training
65) Jack contracts the illness, he tells Richard. Richards hopes all but crumble.
66) Richard realizes that Leo still has a chance to carry the gene, and begins to fear the boy may become the last surviving path back to the future he and Jack failed to secure
67) Jack makes Richard promise that he'd never let Leo join in a conflict of that nature, that he wants Leo to have a normal life
68) Richard hesitates, but accepts as he understands the feeling since he has a secret daughter of his own that he wanted the same for.
69) Richard accepts his fate and decides to play into his new life as a carpenter, with a promise that when Jack dies, he'll look after Leo and not let him get involved with the conflict.
70) Years go by, and both sides of the conflict settle and continue living their lives. Leo is growing up, so is Esmeralda. Jack is still fighting the illness, it is taking him at a slow pace, he is strong.
71) The King is actively still shaping public knowledge during this time, he has successfully placed Esmeralda in the role of the prophesied super modern ancient
72) Jack no longer trains, and mostly stays indoors. He spends all of his time with Leo though as much as his body allows him to
73) Leo is saddened at his father's new appearance. Richard is as well.
74) Jack finally dies, when Leo is about 13 years old. Leo has to fend for himself after that. The village holds a big funeral for Jack, the helpful and protective and kind new resident of the village. He is mourned by all.
75) Richard does not attend the funeral out in the open, he is hidden and watching nearby. He watches young Leo cry and receive comfort from the village. After the funeral period, Marshe starts to bully Leo since Jack is no longer around. He had been harboring hate for him over the years after watching his dad (Marcus) lose a fight to Jack.
76) Over the years Richard helps Leo in ways he cannot see. He is not ready to expose himself openly to the boy, he needs time first
77) During this time Esmeralda is living the life of a princess
78) Leo fends for himself with occasional help from Richard that is not obvious to him for years up until the film starts.
